			     What is XRN?

  XRN is a Usenet News reader for the X window system.  It requires an
NNTP server to talk to (i.e., it cannot read news from local disk
files), and the NNTP server must support the XHDR command (most
servers nowadays do; if yours doesn't, XRN will complain when you try
to run it).

  XRN is currently maintained by Jonathan Kamens.  Bug reports or
comments about it should be sent to bug-xrn@kamens.brookline.ma.us.
Please do *not* write to that address with basic questions about
compiling the program; if you are unfamiliar with compiling X
applications and the instructions below are not sufficient, you should
seek help at your site.

  Versions of XRN prior to 7.00 were maintained by Ellen Santovich and
Rick Spickelmier.


		XRN is a Usenet-friendly News reader!

  I have striven to make XRN adhere to all relevant standards and to
help users avoid the common pitfalls of participation in the Usenet.
To that end, all releases of XRN starting with 9.02 are compliant with
the Good Net-Keeping Seal of Approval (GNKSA), a standard which
defines how News readers should behave to make the Usenet a better
place for everyone.  See <URL:http://www.xs4all.nl/~js/gnksa/> for
more information about the GNKSA.  XRN's GNKSA review can be viewed at
<URL:http://www.xs4all.nl/~js/gnksa/Evaluations/xrn-9.02beta4.txt>.


			   Where to get XRN

  The XRN home page is <http://www.mit.edu/people/jik/software/xrn.html>.

  Source code for the most recent production release of XRN can always
be found at <ftp://sipb.mit.edu/pub/xrn/xrn.tgz>.  The most recent
beta-test release of XRN (if there is a beta release more recent than
the last production release) can be retrieved from
<ftp://sipb.mit.edu/pub/xrn/beta.tgz>.  The file
<ftp://sipb.mit.edu/pub/xrn/xrn-linux.tgz> contains a binary XRN
release for Linux, based on the most recent production release.  These
files are GNU tar archives compressed with GNU zip.

  The current production release and the current Linux binary release
are also available in the X Consortium's contributed software archive,
in the directory <ftp://ftp.x.org/contrib/applications/xrn>.


	      Interesting files in the XRN distribution

  There are a number of files in the XRN distribution besides the
actual source files for the program.  I maintain some of these files
actively.  Others are left over from before I started maintaining XRN,
and I have not reviewed them for correctness or updated them; use the
information in them at your own risk.  In the following list,
asterisks indicate files which I have tried to keep up-to-date (this
more files may be updated in future releases, especially if people
send me feedback about the out-of-date ones):

COMMON-PROBLMS		A list of common problems and questions about
			the program, with explanations and solutions.
COPYRIGHT		Describes the copyright restrictions on XRN.
			I have left the University of California
			copyright intact, despite the fact that it's
			not clear at this point how much of the code
			was actually written by UC employees, because
			that's the easiest thing to do and it doesn't
			do any harm.
* ChangeLog		A list of changes from previous releases of
			XRN.
* README		This file.
* README.*		Notes about compiling XRN in specific
			environments.  For example, README.Linux
			contains notes about compiling XRN on Linux
			systems.
* TODO			A list of pending bug fixes and improvements
			to XRN.  If you're interested in helping to
			develop XRN, picking one of the items in this
			list and digging around in the source code to
			see what you can do about it is a good way to
			start.

			This file is sort of "half up-to-date,"
			because I've been adding new items to the
			beginning of it, but the items at the end of
			it are left over from before I took over
			maintenance of XRN, and some of them may be
			inaccurate.
contrib/*		Various scripts, hints, etc. contributed by
			XRN users and not "officially" part of XRN.
* doc/rfc977.txt	The Internet RFC governing NNTP, the Network
			News Transport Protocol, which XRN users to
			talk to the server.
* doc/strtok.doc	Documentation of the strtok() implementation
			included with XRN.
* doc/vprintf.doc	Documentation for the vprintf() implementation
			included with XRN.
* doc/vprintf.port	The original vprintf() implementation from
			which the one used in XRN is derived.
still-to-do/*		Various bug fixes that have not yet been
			examined or incorporated into the program.
			Some of these are probably obsolete.  I
			inherited them when I took over maintenance
			of the program, and I haven't done anything
			with them.


		      Supported/tested platforms

  XRN has been compiled and run on a large variety of platforms; it
should compile pretty easily on most platforms.  The maintainer uses
Linux (ELF gcc and C libraries) with X11R6 libraries (XFree86 3.1.2).
Other successful platforms reported by users include SunOS 4.1.3,
OSF/1, HP-UX, AIX, Solaris 2.x, BSD/386, and SGI.

  XRN probably won't work with X11R4.  R4 is a very old and obsolete
release, and I do not have the resources to continue to support it
while doing on-going development which takes advantage of features
found only in newer X releases.  Therefore, please do not send me bug
reports about XRN compiled with X11R4; if you want to use XRN, you'll
have to get a newer version of X with which to compile it.

  Rick Murphy <murphy@ufp.dco.dec.com> has a version of XRN that runs
on VMS, available as <ftp://gatekeeper.dec.com/pub/DEC/dxrn.tar.Z>.
His version of XRN also will compile with a DECwindows interface on
UNIX, as well as with a Motif interface with some "bells and whistles"
that this version of XRN does not have.  Integrating DXRN into the
code base of XRN (i.e., this package) is on my TODO list, but I doubt
it'll get done in the short term.


		What happened to the Motif interface?

  Previous versions of XRN, up to and including version 7.00, included
support for building XRN with Motif instead of the Athena widget set
("Xaw").  However, the Motif support has been removed (temporarily, I
hope) in later releases.  There are two primary reasons for this:

1) The implementation of Motif support was not parallel to the Xaw
   implementation.  As a result, the Motif interface behaved
   differently (and in some cases incorrectly) from the Xaw interface,
   and furthermore, it was extremely difficult to keep the Motif
   interface in sync with the Xaw interface when changes were made.

2) Newer releases of XRN include a significant clean-up of the XRN
   code base.  This clean-up was necessary in order to introduce much
   of the new functionality that is included in new releases.  It was
   also necessary because, to be honest, the code base was disgusting.
   The bits of Motif code scattered all over the XRN code base were
   making it virtually impossible to do the code clean-up, so they had
   to be removed.

A volunteer is in the process of restoring the Motif support to XRN,
and in fact, current beta releases have rudimentary Motif support in
it.  However, this support is not yet complete or supported, and I do
not suggest that people use it at this time.  Furthermore, the
volunteer has run into some problems and currently does not anticipate
being able to finish the work.  If you are interested in helping to
finish it, please contact me.

  If you must have a Motif interface, XRN release 7.00 is available in
<ftp://sipb.mit.edu/pub/xrn/unsupported/xrn-motif.tgz>.  However,
release 7.00 is unspported, and I will reject any bug reports or
enhancement requests pertaining to it.  I do not recommend that you
use XRN 7.00.


		     Compiling and installing XRN

  The following steps are necessary in order to compile and install
XRN.  The last few steps are the standard method for compiling and
installing an X program; if you need more help with them, you should
look for it at your site.

1. Check if there is a README.* file for the platform you are trying
   to compile on, and if so, read it.

2. Edit the Imakefile (after making it writeable with chmod) for your
   local configuration.  The comments in the file explain what needs
   to be edited.

3. Edit config.h (after making it writeable with chmod) for your local
   configuration.  The file is (sort of) arranged from most
   significant to least significant parameters, so if you get part-way
   through it and start to feel like you can just leave the rest
   as-is, you probably can.

   If you don't define a parameter that needs to be defined, you'll
   get an error during compilation.

   Make sure to delete the "#error" line near the top of config.h when
   you're done editing it for your local configuration.  That line is
   there to prevent you from trying to compile the program without
   configuring it first.  Do NOT define OV_CAMBRIDGE when compiling
   the program -- I use that symbol for my local configuration so that
   I can ship the same config.h as the one I use, so if you define it,
   you'll end up getting the configuration that I use locally (which
   is certainly not what you want).

   If you want to put all of your configuration paramaters in the
   SITE_DEFINES variable in the Imakefile, you can do that instead of
   editing config.h.  However, if you do that, make sure to put
   "-DCONFIG_H_IS_OK" in SITE_DEFINES.

4. Run "xmkmf" and then "make".

   If you don't have xmkmf at your site, or if it doesn't work or
   produces a Makefile that doesn't work, you can try configuring by
   hand, by editing the Makefile included in the distribution (note
   that if you ran xmkmf, it probably renamed the distributed Makefile
   to Makefile.bak).  It's generated using xmkmf at my site, and
   almost certainly will require editing to be correct for yours.  If
   you have to do this and you have trouble, please get help from
   someone at your site rather than contacting me about it; I don't
   have time to support sites that don't have xmkmf installed
   properly.

   If you get an error about a missing header file "mesg_strings.h"
   when you run "make", then run "make mesg_strings.h" and then run
   "make" again.

5. Run "make install" to install the program and its application
   defaults file, and/or "make install.man" to install the man page.

   Note that XRN will not run correctly without its application
   defaults file installed.


		       If you have problems...

  If you have problems compiling or running XRN, you should check the
COMMON-PROBLMS file in the XRN distribution to see if your problem is
documented there.  If not, write to bug-xrn@kamens.brookline.ma.us for
assistance.

  If you write to me about a problem which is documented in
COMMON-PROBLMS, and I do not see any sign that you have read it, then
I *will* response tersely, telling you to read it before contacting
me.  In short, please don't waste my time asking me how to solve
problems whose solutions are already documented.


			 The XRN mailing list

  If you would like to be informed of new releases of XRN and of any
major bugs that are discovered in between releases, you can subscribe
to the xrn-users@kamens.brookline.ma.us mailing list.  It's an
announcement list, not a discussion list, so the traffic on it is very
low.  Send mail to xrn-users-request@kamens.brookline.ma.us to ask to
be added to the list.


			  The future of XRN

  Release 9.00 of XRN is the first general-availability release in
over a year and a half.  The next major release may take just as long,
or even longer.  I have not had as much time as I would have liked to
work on XRN, and I will probably have even less in the future.

  However, I do not want XRN to be orphaned or to deteriorate.
Therefore, I will continue to make bug-fix releases as necessary, and
I will devote as much time as I can to making enhancements.

  If you are interested in volunteering to take over, I'd love to hear
from you, but I'm only going to hand off XRN to someone whom I'm
convinced will do a good job, because I've invested a lot of effort
into it, and because the folks who maintained it before me allowed it
to stagnate for years; I do not want that to happen again.



I hope you find XRN useful!

  Jonathan Kamens
  jik@kamens.brookline.ma.us

# $Id: README,v 1.51 2006-01-03 16:17:06 jik Exp $
